Update examples in C and Fortran (#242)
spglib/spglib: c-example/README.md

# C example

> This is the README file for spglib examples for C.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is an example of how to use Spglib through the C api
```

Nitpick, but should we canonicalize `Spglib` or `spglib` or any other form for text names? Only the cmake project name we should stick to the common convention, otherwise, whichever style is more appealing

## Examples of using spglib in a cmake project

See the local [`CMakeLists.txt`](CMakeLists.txt) file for how to use
spglib in a cmake project, using either native cmake options or pkg-config.

## Examples of linking to spglib manually

To manually compile `example.c`:

```console
gcc example.c -I[include directory] -L[library directory] -lsymspg -lm
```

where the `[include directory]` and `[library directory]` can be obtained
via `pkg-config --cflags --libs spglib`.

> ## Concept

Reviewer: Can we move this to top level readme? I will suggest some re-wording such that someone clueless like me can understand.

Author: I have no clear view on the structure of README.md. Could it be possible for you to manage it after merging this PR?

Reviewer: I mean at the `/README.md` instead of `c-example/README.md`

Author: I see.

Author: This was treated at 5800eb0,

Reviewer: Yes, I like this one. I'll maybe simplify it later and move some back to the C api

A crystal structure is given to a spglib function to obtain symmetry
information. `spg_get_dataset` is the function that returns most fruitful
space group information. This returns the result in the C-structure
`SpglibDataset`. We don't know the length of symmetry operations to be returned,

> the memory spaces are allocated dynamically, which means we have to free them.

Reviewer: That's what you meant with allocatable in Fortran. I think this needs to be tested in an IDE to confirm this behavior.

Note that using SWIG, we can share C++ smart pointers such that the other language can decide how to deallocate the memory. It has both Python and Fortran bindings.

Author: In the Fortran wrapper:

https://github.com/spglib/spglib/blob/02159eef6e7349535049a43fe2272bb634c77945/fortran/spglib_f08.f90#L525

the data in `SpglibDataset` in C structure is copied to the Fortran structure in which the data are allocated by Fortran's allocatable arrays, which should be deallocated automatically as the language specification.

I have no idea about SWIG. For me, writing Python C-API is easy. But for long term perspective, if maintainers can prefer SWIG or any other utils (e.g. cython in python), we can move. Until now, I could be only the person who maintains spglib in long-run, so it has been safer to choose the ways that are easiest for me. However this way is clearly not sustainable although it seems spglib is expected to live longer.

Reviewer: > the data in `SpglibDataset` in C structure is copied to the Fortran structure

But that means the original dataset generated by C still needs to be deleted.

> I have no idea about SWIG. For me, writing Python C-API is easy.

Basically SWIG = you don't need to write the binding api, it generates for you. You just point it to the relevant functions/classes and it generates the bindings necessary (including C-Fortran string passing, oh the horror in doing that manually)

Author: > But that means the original dataset generated by C still needs to be deleted.

This is done inside the Fortran wrapper.

https://github.com/spglib/spglib/blob/02159eef6e7349535049a43fe2272bb634c77945/fortran/spglib_f08.f90#L669

Reviewer: 👍 Whenever I look at C and Fortran code I miss the automatic memory management of C++

by `spg_free_dataset`. To tolerate tiny distortion of crystal structure,
it has to be specified when calling symmetry search function. The following
pages show the details.

- [Crystal structure format](https://spglib.github.io/spglib/variable.html)
- [Functions](https://spglib.github.io/spglib/api.html)
- [Spglib dataset](https://spglib.github.io/spglib/dataset.html)

```C
#include "spglib.h"

int main(void) {
    SpglibDataset *dataset;
    // Wurtzite structure (P6_3mc)
    double lattice[3][3] = {
        {3.111, -1.5555, 0}, {0, 2.6942050311733885, 0}, {0, 0, 4.988}};
    double position[4][3] = {
        {1.0 / 3, 2.0 / 3, 0.0},
        {2.0 / 3, 1.0 / 3, 0.5},
        {1.0 / 3, 2.0 / 3, 0.6181},
        {2.0 / 3, 1.0 / 3, 0.1181},
    };
    int types[4] = {1, 1, 2, 2};
    int num_atom = 4;
    double symprec = 1e-5;

    // SplibDataset has to be freed after use.
    dataset = spg_get_dataset(lattice, position, types, num_atom, symprec);

    // Obtain data in SpglibDataset.

>     dataset->spacegroup_number;

Reviewer: This line is confusing. It doesn't call a method because it's C not C++, so it does nothing?

Author: This did nothing, but just accessing a structure item. I changed it by 3e038d5, which may be better?

Reviewer: Indeed, but can you add a comment why it should be that number for example?

Author: Yes. It is done at 1baad19.
